[Docs] Add loading script (#1174)
huggingface/diffusers: docs/source/using-diffusers/loading.mdx

# Loading

> A core premise of the diffusers library is to make diffusion models **as accesible as possible**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A core premise of the diffusers library is to make diffusion models **as accessible as possible**.
```

> A core premise of the diffusers library is to make as many diffusion models **as accesible as possible**.

Author: ```suggestion
A core premise of the diffusers library is to make diffusion models **as accesible as possible**.
```

> Accessibility is hereby achieved by providing an API to load complete diffusion pipelines as well as individual components with a single line of code. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Accessibility is therefore achieved by providing an API to load complete diffusion pipelines as well as individual components with a single line of code. 
```

> Accesibility is hereby achieved by providing functions to load a complete diffusion pipelines as well as individual componens with a single line of code. 

Author: ```suggestion
Accessibility is hereby achieved by providing an API to load complete diffusion pipelines as well as individual components with a single line of code. 
```

In the following we explain in-detail how to easily load:

- *Complete Diffusion Pipelines* via the [`DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained`]
- *Diffusion Models* via [`ModelMixin.from_pretrained`]

> - *Schedulers* and *Configurations* via [`ConfigMixin.from_config`]

Author: ```suggestion
- *Schedulers* via [`ConfigMixin.from_config`]
```

## Loading pipelines

> The [`DiffusionPipeline`] class is the easiest way to access any diffusion model thas is [available on the Hub](https://huggingface.co/models?library=diffusers). Let's look at an example on how to download [CompVis' Latent Diffusion model](https://huggingface.co/CompVis/ldm-text2im-large-256).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [`DiffusionPipeline`] class is the easiest way to access any diffusion model that is [available on the Hub](https://huggingface.co/models?library=diffusers). Let's look at an example on how to download [CompVis' Latent Diffusion model](https://huggingface.co/CompVis/ldm-text2im-large-256).
```

```python
from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline

repo_id = "CompVis/ldm-text2im-large-256"
ldm = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(repo_id)
```

> Here [`DiffusionPipeline`] automatically detects the correct pipeline being [`LDMTextToImagePipeline`], downloads and caches all required configuration and weight files if not already done so, and finally returns a pipeline instance `ldm`.

Author: ```suggestion
Here [`DiffusionPipeline`] automatically detects the correct pipeline (*i.e.* [`LDMTextToImagePipeline`]), downloads and caches all required configuration and weight files (if not already done so), and finally returns a pipeline instance, called `ldm`.
```

> The pipeline instance can then be called using [`LDMTextToImagePipeline.__call__`] for text-to-image generation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The pipeline instance can then be called using [`LDMTextToImagePipeline.__call__`] (i.e., `ldm()`) for text-to-image generation.
```

> Instead of using the generic [`DiffusionPipeline`] class for loading, one can also directly use the fitting pipeline class. The code snippet above yields the same instance as when doing:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead of using the generic [`DiffusionPipeline`] class for loading, you can also load the appropriate pipeline class directly. The code snippet above yields the same instance as when doing:
```

> Instead of using the generic [`DiffusionPipeline`] class for loading, one can also directly use the fitting pipeline class if known by the user. The code snippet above yields the same instance as when doing:

Author: ```suggestion
Instead of using the generic [`DiffusionPipeline`] class for loading, one can also directly use the fitting pipeline class. The code snippet above yields the same instance as when doing:
```

```python
from diffusers import LDMTextToImagePipeline

repo_id = "CompVis/ldm-text2im-large-256"
ldm = LDMTextToImagePipeline.from_pretrained(repo_id)
```

> Diffusion pipelines like `LDMTextToImagePipeline` often consist of multiple components. These components conists both of parameterized models, such as `"unet"`, "vqvae"` and "bert", tokenizers and schedulers which interact sometimes in complex way with each other, *e.g.* for [`LDMTextToImagePipeline`] or [`StableDiffusionPipeline`] the pipeline is explained [here](https://huggingface.co/blog/stable_diffusion#how-does-stable-diffusion-work).

Author: ```suggestion
Diffusion pipelines like `LDMTextToImagePipeline` often consist of multiple components. These components can be both parameterized models, such as `"unet"`, "vqvae"` and "bert", tokenizers or schedulers. These components can interact in complex way with each other when using the pipeline in inference, *e.g.* for [`LDMTextToImagePipeline`] or [`StableDiffusionPipeline`] the inference call is explained [here](https://huggingface.co/blog/stable_diffusion#how-does-stable-diffusion-work).
```

> Diffusion pipelines like `LDMTextToImagePipeline` often consist of multiple components. These components can be both parameterized models, such as `"unet"`, "vqvae"` and "bert", tokenizers or schedulers. These components can interact in complex way with each other when using the pipeline in inference, *e.g.* for [`LDMTextToImagePipeline`] or [`StableDiffusionPipeline`] the inference call is explained [here](https://huggingface.co/blog/stable_diffusion#how-does-stable-diffusion-work).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Diffusion pipelines like `LDMTextToImagePipeline` often consist of multiple components. These components can be both parameterized models, such as `"unet"`, `"vqvae"` and "bert", tokenizers or schedulers. These components can interact in complex ways with each other when using the pipeline in inference, *e.g.* for [`LDMTextToImagePipeline`] or [`StableDiffusionPipeline`] the inference call is explained [here](https://huggingface.co/blog/stable_diffusion#how-does-stable-diffusion-work).
```

> Diffusion pipelines like `LDMTextToImagePipeline` often consist of multiple components. These components can be both parameterized models, such as `"unet"`, "vqvae"` and "bert", tokenizers or schedulers. These components can interact in complex way with each other when using the pipeline in inference, *e.g.* for [`LDMTextToImagePipeline`] or [`StableDiffusionPipeline`] the inference call is explained [here](https://huggingface.co/blog/stable_diffusion#how-does-stable-diffusion-work).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Diffusion pipelines like `LDMTextToImagePipeline` often consist of multiple components. These components can be both parameterized models, such as `"unet"`, `"vqvae"` and `"bert"`, tokenizers or schedulers. These components can interact in complex ways with each other when using the pipeline in inference, *e.g.* for [`LDMTextToImagePipeline`] or [`StableDiffusionPipeline`] the inference call is explained [here](https://huggingface.co/blog/stable_diffusion#how-does-stable-diffusion-work).
```

> Diffusion pipelines like `LDMTextToImagePipeline` often consist of multiple components. These components can be both parameterized models, such as `"unet"`, "vqvae"` and "bert", tokenizers or schedulers. These components can interact in complex way with each other when using the pipeline in inference, *e.g.* for [`LDMTextToImagePipeline`] or [`StableDiffusionPipeline`] the inference call is explained [here](https://huggingface.co/blog/stable_diffusion#how-does-stable-diffusion-work).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Diffusion pipelines like `LDMTextToImagePipeline` often consist of multiple components. These components can be both parameterized models, such as `"unet"`, "vqvae"` and "bert", tokenizers or schedulers. These components can interact in complex ways with each other when using the pipeline in inference, *e.g.* for [`LDMTextToImagePipeline`] or [`StableDiffusionPipeline`] the inference call is explained [here](https://huggingface.co/blog/stable_diffusion#how-does-stable-diffusion-work).
```

> The purpose of the [pipeline classes](./api/overview#diffusers-summary) is to wrap the complexity of these diffusion systems and give the user an easy-to-use API while staying flexible for customization as will be shown later.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The purpose of the [pipeline classes](./api/overview#diffusers-summary) is to wrap the complexity of these diffusion systems and give the user an easy-to-use API while staying flexible for customization, as will be shown later.
```

> The purpose of the [pipeline classes](./api/overview#diffusers-summary) is to wrap the complexity of these pipeline systems and give the user the most easy-to-use API while staying flexible for customization as will be shown later.

Author: ```suggestion
The purpose of the [pipeline classes](./api/overview#diffusers-summary) is to wrap the complexity of these diffusion systems and give the user an easy-to-use API while staying flexible for customization as will be shown later.
```

> ### Loading pipelines that require access request

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Loading pipelines that require authorization
```

> Due to the capabilities of diffusion models to generate extremely realistic images, there is a certain danger that such models might be misused for unwanted applications, *e.g.* generating pornography of violent images.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Due to the capabilities of diffusion models to generate extremely realistic images, there is a certain danger that such models might be misused for unwanted applications, *e.g.* generating pornography or violent images.
```

> Due to the capabilities of diffusion models to generate extremely realistic images, there is a certain danger that such models might be misused for unwanted applications, *e.g.* generating pornography of violent images.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Due to the capabilities of diffusion models to generate extremely realistic images, there is a certain danger that such models might be misused for unsolicited applications, *e.g.* generating pornography or violent images.
```

> Due to the capabilities of diffusion models to generate extremely realistic images, there is a certain danger that such models might be misused for unwanted applications, *e.g.* generating pornography of violent images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to the capabilities of diffusion models to generate extremely realistic images, there is a certain danger that such models might be misused for unwanted applications, *e.g.* generating pornography or violent images.
```

> In order to limit the possibility of such unwanted use cases, some of the most powerful diffusion models require users to acknowledge a license before being able to use the model or else the pipeline cannot be downloaded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to minimize the possibility of such unsolicited use cases, some of the most powerful diffusion models require users to acknowledge a license before being able to use the model. If the user does not agree to the license, the pipeline cannot be downloaded.
```

> If you try to load [`runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5`](https://huggingface.co/runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5) the same way as:

Author: ```suggestion
If you try to load [`runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5`](https://huggingface.co/runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5) the same way as done previously:
```

```python
from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline

repo_id = "runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5"
stable_diffusion = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(repo_id)
```

> it will only work if you have both *click-accepted* the license on [the model card](https://huggingface.co/runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5) and if you're logged into the Hugging Face Hub. Otherwise you will get an error message

Author: ```suggestion
it will only work if you have both *click-accepted* the license on [the model card](https://huggingface.co/runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5) and are logged into the Hugging Face Hub. Otherwise you will get an error message
```

> such as the following:

Author: Good idea!

```
OSError: runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5 is not a local folder and is not a valid model identifier listed on 'https://huggingface.co/models'
If this is a private repository, make sure to pass a token having permission to this repo with `use_auth_token` or log in with `huggingface-cli login`
```

> Therefore, we need to make sure to *click-accept* the license as well as run:

Author: ```suggestion
Therefore, we need to make sure to *click-accept* the license and run:
```

```
huggingface-cli login
```

before trying to load the model. Or alternatively, you can pass [your access token](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/security-tokens#user-access-tokens) directly via the flag `use_auth_token`. In this case you do **not** need 
to run `huggingface-cli login` before:

```python
from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline

repo_id = "runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5"
stable_diffusion = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(repo_id, use_auth_token="<your-access-token>")
```

The final option to circumvent having to be logged in to the Hugging Face Hub to use pipelines that require access is to load the locally as explained in the next section.

### Loading pipelines locally

> If you prefer to have complete control over the pipeline and its corresponding files or, as said before, if want to use pipelines that require access requests without having to be connected to the Hugging Face Hub in one way or 

Author: ```suggestion
If you prefer to have complete control over the pipeline and its corresponding files or, as said before, if you want to use pipelines that require access requests without having to be connected to the Hugging Face Hub in one way or 
```

> If you prefer to have complete control over the pipeline and its corresponding files or, as said before, if you want to use pipelines that require access requests without having to be connected to the Hugging Face Hub in one way or 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you prefer to have complete control over the pipeline and its corresponding files or, as said before, if you want to use pipelines that require authorization without having to be connected to the Hugging Face Hub, 
```

Author: Hmm leaving as access request here since we don't really authorize the usage - every click is accepted

> another, we recommend loading pipelines locally.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
we recommend loading pipelines locally.
```

> To load pipeline locally, you first need to manually download the whole folder structure on your local disk and then pass a local path to the [`DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained`]. Let's again look at an example here for 

Author: ```suggestion
To load a diffusion pipeline locally, you first need to manually download the whole folder structure on your local disk and then pass a local path to the [`DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained`]. Let's again look at an example here for 
```

[CompVis' Latent Diffusion model](https://huggingface.co/CompVis/ldm-text2im-large-256).

> First, you should make use of [`git-lfs`](https://git-lfs.github.com/) to download the whole folder structure that has been uploaded to the model repository: https://huggingface.co/CompVis/ldm-text2im-large-256/tree/main via:

Author: ```suggestion
First, you should make use of [`git-lfs`](https://git-lfs.github.com/) to download the whole folder structure that has been uploaded to the [model repository](https://huggingface.co/CompVis/ldm-text2im-large-256/tree/main):
```

```
git lfs install
git clone https://huggingface.co/CompVis/ldm-text2im-large-256
```

The command above will create a local folder called `./ldm-text2im-large-256` on your disk.
Now, all you have to do is to simply pass the local folder path to `from_pretrained`:

```python
from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline

repo_id = "./ldm-text2im-large-256"
stable_diffusion = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(repo_id)
```

> In case `repo_id` is a local path as it is the case here [`DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained`] will automatically detect it and therefore not try to download any files from the Hub.

Author: ```suggestion
If `repo_id` is a local path as it is the case here [`DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained`] will automatically detect it and therefore not try to download any files from the Hub.
```

> If `repo_id` is a local path as it is the case here [`DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained`] will automatically detect it and therefore not try to download any files from the Hub.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If `repo_id` is a local path, as it is the case here, [`DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained`] will automatically detect it and therefore not try to download any files from the Hub.
```

While we usually recommend to load weights directly from the Hub to be certain to stay up to date with the newest changes, loading pipelines locally should be preferred if one 

> **wants to stay anonymous** or disconnected from the internet.

Reviewer 3: Really nice! 

(nit) maybe use stable diffusion checkpoint here as an example, because that's the checkpoint which requires `auth` token, ldm doesn't.

> **wants to stay anonymous** or disconnected from the internet.

Reviewer 2: Too much importance to this use case IMO. I suggest not to use bold and also include other use cases: models you have finetuned or trained yourself, slightly faster startup (no requests to the hub), self-contained apps, ...

### Loading customized pipelines

> Advanced users that want to load customized versions of diffusion pipelines can do so easily by swapping any of the default components, *e.g.* the scheduler, with other scheduler classes.

Author: ```suggestion
Advanced users that want to load customized versions of diffusion pipelines can do so by swapping any of the default components, *e.g.* the scheduler, with other scheduler classes.
```

> For example, [Stable Diffusion v1-5](https://huggingface.co/runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5) uses the [`PNDMScheduler`] by default which is generally not the most performant scheduler. Instead since the release

Author: ```suggestion
A classical use case of this functionality is to swap the scheduler. [Stable Diffusion v1-5](https://huggingface.co/runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5) uses the [`PNDMScheduler`] by default which is generally not the most performant scheduler. Since the release
```

of stable diffusion, multiple improved schedulers have been published. To use those, the user has to manually load their preferred scheduler and pass it into [`DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained`].

> *E.g.* to use the [`EulerDiscreteScheduler`] scheduler or [`DPMSolverMultistepScheduler`] to have a better quality vs. generation speed trade-off, one could load them as follows:

Author: ```suggestion
*E.g.* to use [`EulerDiscreteScheduler`] or [`DPMSolverMultistepScheduler`] to have a better quality vs. generation speed trade-off for inference, one could load them as follows:
```

```python
from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline, EulerDiscreteScheduler, DPMSolverMultistepScheduler

repo_id = "runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5"

> scheduler = EulerAncestralDiscreteScheduler.from_config(repo_id, subfolder="scheduler")

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
scheduler = EulerDiscreteScheduler.from_config(repo_id, subfolder="scheduler")
```

# or
# scheduler = DPMSolverMultistepScheduler.from_config(repo_id, subfolder="scheduler")

stable_diffusion = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(repo_id, scheduler=scheduler)
```

Three things are worth paying attention to here.
- First, the scheduler is loaded with [`ConfigMixin.from_config`] since it only depends on a configuration file and not any parameterized weights
- Second, the scheduler is loaded with a function argument, called `subfolder="scheduler"` as the configuration of stable diffusion's scheduling is defined in a [subfolder of the official pipeline repository](https://huggingface.co/runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5/tree/main/scheduler)

> - Third, the scheduler instance can simply be passed with the `scheduler` keyword argument to [`DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained`]. This functions because the [`StableDiffusionPipeline`] defines its scheduler with the `scheduler` attribute. One could not pass it under a different name, such as `sampler=scheduler` since `sampler` is not a defined keyword for [`StableDiffusionPipeline.__init__`]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Third, the scheduler instance can simply be passed with the `scheduler` keyword argument to [`DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained`]. This works because the [`StableDiffusionPipeline`] defines its scheduler with the `scheduler` attribute. It's not possible to use a different name, such as `sampler=scheduler` since `sampler` is not a defined keyword for [`StableDiffusionPipeline.__init__`]
```

> Not only the scheduler components can be customized for diffusion pipelines, in theory all components of a pipeline can be customized. However in practice it often only makes sense to switch out some of the componets because a customized component has to be **compatible** with what the pipeline expects.

Author: ```suggestion
Not only the scheduler components can be customized for diffusion pipelines; in theory all components of a pipeline can be customized. However in practice, it often only makes sense to switch out a components that has **compatible** alternatives to what the pipeline expects.
```

> Not only the scheduler components can be customized for diffusion pipelines; in theory all components of a pipeline can be customized. However in practice, it often only makes sense to switch out a components that has **compatible** alternatives to what the pipeline expects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Not only the scheduler components can be customized for diffusion pipelines; in theory, all components of a pipeline can be customized. In practice, however, it often only makes sense to switch out a component that has **compatible** alternatives to what the pipeline expects.
```

> Many schedulers classes are compatible with each other - as can be seen [here](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/0dd8c6b4dbab4069de9ed1cafb53cbd495873879/src/diffusers/schedulers/scheduling_ddim.py#L112) whereas this is not always the case for other components, such as the `"unet"`.

Author: ```suggestion
Many schedulers classes are compatible with each other as can be seen [here](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/0dd8c6b4dbab4069de9ed1cafb53cbd495873879/src/diffusers/schedulers/scheduling_ddim.py#L112) whereas this is not always the case for other components, such as the `"unet"`.
```

> Many schedulers classes are compatible with each other as can be seen [here](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/0dd8c6b4dbab4069de9ed1cafb53cbd495873879/src/diffusers/schedulers/scheduling_ddim.py#L112) whereas this is not always the case for other components, such as the `"unet"`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Many scheduler classes are compatible with each other as can be seen [here](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/0dd8c6b4dbab4069de9ed1cafb53cbd495873879/src/diffusers/schedulers/scheduling_ddim.py#L112). This is not always the case for other components, such as the `"unet"`.
```

> One special case that can also be customized is the `"safety_checker"` of stable diffusion. If you believe the safety cheker doesn't serve you any good, you can simply disable it by passing `None`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One special case that can also be customized is the `"safety_checker"` of stable diffusion. If you believe the safety checker doesn't serve you any good, you can simply disable it by passing `None`:
```

> One special case that can also be customized is the `"safety_checker"` of stable diffusion. If you believe the safety cheker doesn't serve you any good, you can simply disable it by passing `None`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One special case that can also be customized is the `"safety_checker"` of stable diffusion. If you believe the safety checker doesn't serve you any good, you can simply disable it by passing `None`:
```

Reviewer 2: I'd put a comment about the license, such as: "Please, note that you'll still be bound to the license agreement you accepted so make sure not to use this alternative for user-facing features".

```python
from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline, EulerDiscreteScheduler, DPMSolverMultistepScheduler

stable_diffusion = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(repo_id, safety_checker=None)
```

> 

Reviewer 2: There's another use case for component replacement: reuse across pipelines. For example, load a text to image pipeline and then create an inpainting pipeline with the _same_ components. People usually ask about that.

### How does loading work?

> As a class method [`DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained`] is responsible for two things:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a class method, [`DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained`] is responsible for two things:
```

> - Download the lastest version of the folder structure required to run the `repo_id` with `diffusers` and cache them. If the latest folder structure is available in the local cache, [`DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained`] will simply reuse the cache and **not** re-download the files.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Download the latest version of the folder structure required to run the `repo_id` with `diffusers` and cache them. If the latest folder structure is available in the local cache, [`DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained`] will simply reuse the cache and **not** re-download the files.
```

> - Load the cached weights into the _correct_ pipeline class - one of the [official supported pipeline classes](./api/overview#diffusers-summary) - and return an instance of the class. The _correct_ pipeline class is thereby retrieved from the `model_index.json` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Load the cached weights into the _correct_ pipeline class – one of the [officially supported pipeline classes](./api/overview#diffusers-summary) - and return an instance of the class. The _correct_ pipeline class is thereby retrieved from the `model_index.json` file.
```

> The underlying of folder structure of diffusion pipelines correspond 1-to-1 to their corresponding class instances, *e.g.* [`LDMTextToImagePipeline`] for [`CompVis/ldm-text2im-large-256`](https://huggingface.co/CompVis/ldm-text2im-large-256)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The underlying folder structure of diffusion pipelines correspond 1-to-1 to their corresponding class instances, *e.g.* [`LDMTextToImagePipeline`] for [`CompVis/ldm-text2im-large-256`](https://huggingface.co/CompVis/ldm-text2im-large-256)
```

> This can be understood better by looking at in example. Let's print out pipeline class instance `pipeline` we just defined:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This can be understood better by looking at an example. Let's print out the pipeline class instance `ldm` we load in the following example:
```

```python
from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline

repo_id = "CompVis/ldm-text2im-large-256"
ldm = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(repo_id)
print(ldm)
```

*Output*:
```
LDMTextToImagePipeline {
  "bert": [
    "latent_diffusion",
    "LDMBertModel"
  ],
  "scheduler": [
    "diffusers",
    "DDIMScheduler"
  ],
  "tokenizer": [
    "transformers",
    "BertTokenizer"
  ],
  "unet": [
    "diffusers",
    "UNet2DConditionModel"
  ],
  "vqvae": [
    "diffusers",
    "AutoencoderKL"
  ]
}
```

> First, we see that the official pipeline is the [`LDMTextToImagePipeline`] and second we see that the `LDMTextToImagePipeline` consists of 5 componens:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, we see that the official pipeline is the [`LDMTextToImagePipeline`], and second we see that the `LDMTextToImagePipeline` consists of 5 components:
```

- `"bert"` of class `LDMBertModel` as defined [in the pipeline](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/cd502b25cf0debac6f98d27a6638ef95208d1ea2/src/diffusers/pipelines/latent_diffusion/pipeline_latent_diffusion.py#L664)
- `"scheduler"` of class [`DDIMScheduler`]
- `"tokenizer"` of class `BertTokenizer` as defined [in `transformers`](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/bert#transformers.BertTokenizer)
- `"unet"` of class [`UNet2DConditionModel`]
- `"vqvae"` of class [`AutoencoderKL`]

> Second, let's compare the pipeline instance to the folder structure of the model repository `CompVis/ldm-text2im-large-256`. Looking at the folder structure of [`CompVis/ldm-text2im-large-256`](https://huggingface.co/CompVis/ldm-text2im-large-256/tree/main) on the Hub, we can see it matches 1-to-1 the printed out instance of `LDMTextToImagePipeline` above:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's now compare the pipeline instance to the folder structure of the model repository `CompVis/ldm-text2im-large-256`. Looking at the folder structure of [`CompVis/ldm-text2im-large-256`](https://huggingface.co/CompVis/ldm-text2im-large-256/tree/main) on the Hub, we can see it matches 1-to-1 the printed out instance of `LDMTextToImagePipeline` above:
```

```
.
├── bert
│   ├── config.json
│   └── pytorch_model.bin
├── model_index.json
├── scheduler
│   └── scheduler_config.json
├── tokenizer
│   ├── special_tokens_map.json
│   ├── tokenizer_config.json
│   └── vocab.txt
├── unet
│   ├── config.json
│   └── diffusion_pytorch_model.bin
└── vqvae
    ├── config.json
    └── diffusion_pytorch_model.bin
```

> As we can see each attribute of the instance of `LDMTextToImagePipeline` has its configuration and possibly weights defined in a subfolder that is called **exactly** like the class attribute (`"bert"`, `"scheduler"`, `"tokenizer"`, `"unet"`, `"vqvae"`). Importantly, every pipeline excepts a `model_index.json` file that tells the `DiffusionPipeline` both:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As we can see each attribute of the instance of `LDMTextToImagePipeline` has its configuration and possibly weights defined in a subfolder that is called **exactly** like the class attribute (`"bert"`, `"scheduler"`, `"tokenizer"`, `"unet"`, `"vqvae"`). Importantly, every pipeline expects a `model_index.json` file that tells the `DiffusionPipeline` both:
```

> As we can see each attribute of the instance of `LDMTextToImagePipeline` has its configuration and possibly weights defined in a subfolder that is called **exactly** like the class attribute (`"bert"`, `"scheduler"`, `"tokenizer"`, `"unet"`, `"vqvae"`). Importantly, every pipeline excepts a `model_index.json` file that tells the `DiffusionPipeline` both:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As we can, see each attribute of the instance of `LDMTextToImagePipeline` has its configuration and, possibly, weights defined in a subfolder that is called **exactly** like the class attribute (`"bert"`, `"scheduler"`, `"tokenizer"`, `"unet"`, `"vqvae"`). Importantly, every pipeline accepts a `model_index.json` file that tells the `DiffusionPipeline` both:
```

- which pipeline class should be loaded, and
- what sub-classes from which library are stored in which subfolders

In the case of `CompVis/ldm-text2im-large-256` the `model_index.json` is therefore defined as follows:

```
{
  "_class_name": "LDMTextToImagePipeline",
  "_diffusers_version": "0.0.4",
  "bert": [
    "latent_diffusion",
    "LDMBertModel"
  ],
  "scheduler": [
    "diffusers",
    "DDIMScheduler"
  ],
  "tokenizer": [
    "transformers",
    "BertTokenizer"
  ],
  "unet": [
    "diffusers",
    "UNet2DConditionModel"
  ],
  "vqvae": [
    "diffusers",
    "AutoencoderKL"
  ]
}
```

- `_class_name` tells `DiffusionPipeline` which pipeline class should be loaded. 
- `_diffusers_version` can be useful to know under which `diffusers` version this model was created.
- Every component of the pipeline is then defined under the form:
```
"name" : [

>   "libray",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "library",
```

  "class"
]
```

> 	- The `"name"` field corresponds both to the name of the subfolder the configuration and weights are stored as well as the attribute name of the pipeline class (as can be seen [here](https://huggingface.co/CompVis/ldm-text2im-large-256/tree/main/bert) and [here](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/cd502b25cf0debac6f98d27a6638ef95208d1ea2/src/diffusers/pipelines/latent_diffusion/pipeline_latent_diffusion.py#L42)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	- The `"name"` field corresponds both to the name of the subfolder in which the configuration and weights are stored as well as the attribute name of the pipeline class (as can be seen [here](https://huggingface.co/CompVis/ldm-text2im-large-256/tree/main/bert) and [here](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/cd502b25cf0debac6f98d27a6638ef95208d1ea2/src/diffusers/pipelines/latent_diffusion/pipeline_latent_diffusion.py#L42)
```

> 	- The `"name"` field corresponds both to the name of the subfolder the configuration and weights are stored as well as the attribute name of the pipeline class (as can be seen [here](https://huggingface.co/CompVis/ldm-text2im-large-256/tree/main/bert) and [here](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/cd502b25cf0debac6f98d27a6638ef95208d1ea2/src/diffusers/pipelines/latent_diffusion/pipeline_latent_diffusion.py#L42)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	- The `"name"` field corresponds both to the name of the subfolder where the configuration and weights are stored, and the attribute name of the pipeline class (as can be seen [here](https://huggingface.co/CompVis/ldm-text2im-large-256/tree/main/bert) and [here](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/blob/cd502b25cf0debac6f98d27a6638ef95208d1ea2/src/diffusers/pipelines/latent_diffusion/pipeline_latent_diffusion.py#L42)
```

	- The `"library"` field corresponds to the name of the library, *e.g.* `diffusers` or `transformers` from which the `"class"` should be loaded
	- The `"class"` field corresponds to the name of the class, *e.g.* [`BertTokenizer`](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/bert#transformers.BertTokenizer) or [`UNet2DConditionModel`]

## Loading models

Models as defined under [src/diffusers/models](https://github.com/huggingface/diffusers/tree/main/src/diffusers/models) can be loaded via the [`ModelMixin.from_pretrained`] function. The API is very similar the [`DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained`] and works in the same way:

> - Download the lastest version of the model weights and configuration with `diffusers` and cache them. If the latest files are available in the local cache, [`ModelMixin.from_pretrained`] will simply reuse the cache and **not** re-download the files.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Download the latest version of the model weights and configuration with `diffusers` and cache them. If the latest files are available in the local cache, [`ModelMixin.from_pretrained`] will simply reuse the cache and **not** re-download the files.
```

- Load the cached weights into the _defined_ model class - one of [the existing model classes](./api/models) - and return an instance of the class.

In constrast to [`DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained`], models rely on fewer files that usually don't require a folder structure, but just a `diffusion_pytorch_model.bin` and `config.json` file.

Let's look at an example:

```python
from diffusers import UNet2DConditionModel

repo_id = "CompVis/ldm-text2im-large-256"
model = UNet2DConditionModel.from_pretrained(repo_id, subfolder="unet")
```

Note how we have to define the `subfolder="unet"` argument to tell [`ModelMixin.from_pretrained`] that the model weights are located in a [subfolder of the repository](https://huggingface.co/CompVis/ldm-text2im-large-256/tree/main/unet).

> As explained in [Loading customized pipelines]("./using-diffusers/loading#loading-customized-pipelines"), one can pass a loaded model to a diffusion pipline, via [`DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained`]:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As explained in [Loading customized pipelines]("./using-diffusers/loading#loading-customized-pipelines"), one can pass a loaded model to a diffusion pipeline, via [`DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained`]:
```

> As explained in [Loading customized pipelines]("./using-diffusers/loading#loading-customized-pipelines"), one can pass a loaded model to a diffusion pipline, via [`DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained`]:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As explained in [Loading customized pipelines]("./using-diffusers/loading#loading-customized-pipelines"), one can pass a loaded model to a diffusion pipeline, via [`DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained`]:
```

Therefore the loading method was given a different name here.

In constrast to pipelines or models, loading schedulers does not consume any significant amount of memory and the same configuration file can often be used for a variety of different schedulers.
For example, all of:

- [`DDPMScheduler`]
- [`DDIMScheduler`]
- [`PNDMScheduler`]
- [`LMSDiscreteScheduler`]
- [`EulerDiscreteScheduler`]
- [`EulerAncestralDiscreteScheduler`]
- [`DPMSolverMultistepScheduler`]

are compatible with [`StableDiffusionPipeline`] and therefore the same scheduler configuration file can be loaded in any of those classes:

```python
from diffusers import StableDiffusionPipeline
from diffusers import (
    DDPMScheduler,
    DDIMScheduler,
    PNDMScheduler,
    LMSDiscreteScheduler,
    EulerDiscreteScheduler,
    EulerAncestralDiscreteScheduler,
    DPMSolverMultistepScheduler,
)

repo_id = "runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5"

ddpm = DDPMScheduler.from_config(repo_id, subfolder="scheduler")
ddim = DDIMScheduler.from_config(repo_id, subfolder="scheduler")
pndm = PNDMScheduler.from_config(repo_id, subfolder="scheduler")
lms = LMSDiscreteScheduler.from_config(repo_id, subfolder="scheduler")

> euler = EulerAncestralDiscreteScheduler.from_config(repo_id, subfolder="scheduler")
> euler_anc = EulerDiscreteScheduler.from_config(repo_id, subfolder="scheduler")

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
euler_anc = EulerAncestralDiscreteScheduler.from_config(repo_id, subfolder="scheduler")
euler = EulerDiscreteScheduler.from_config(repo_id, subfolder="scheduler")
```

[CompVis' Latent Diffusion model](https://huggingface.co/CompVis/ldm-text2im-large-256).

First, you should make use of [`git-lfs`](https://git-lfs.github.com/) to download the whole folder structure that has been uploaded to the [model repository](https://huggingface.co/CompVis/ldm-text2im-large-256/tree/main):

```
git lfs install
git clone https://huggingface.co/runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5
```

The command above will create a local folder called `./stable-diffusion-v1-5` on your disk.
Now, all you have to do is to simply pass the local folder path to `from_pretrained`:

```python
from diffusers import DiffusionPipeline

repo_id = "./stable-diffusion-v1-5"
stable_diffusion = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(repo_id)
```

If `repo_id` is a local path as it is the case here [`DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained`] will automatically detect it and therefore not try to download any files from the Hub.
While we usually recommend to load weights directly from the Hub to be certain to stay up to date with the newest changes, loading pipelines locally should be preferred if one 

> **wants to stay anonymous** or disconnected from the internet.

Author: ```suggestion
wants to stay anonymous, self-contained applications, etc...
```

stable_diffusion = DiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(repo_id, safety_checker=None)
```

Another common use case is to reuse the same components in multiple pipelines, *e.g.* the weights and configurations of [`"runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5"`](https://huggingface.co/runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5) can be used for both [`StableDiffusionPipeline`] and [`StableDiffusionImg2ImgPipeline`] and we might not want to 
use the exact same weights into RAM twice. In this case, customizing all the input instances would help us 
to only load the weights into RAM once:

```python
from diffusers import StableDiffusionPipeline, StableDiffusionImg2ImgPipeline

model_id = "runwayml/stable-diffusion-v1-5"
stable_diffusion_txt2img = StableDiffusionPipeline.from_pretrained(model_id)

components = stable_diffusion_txt2img.components

# weights are not reloaded into RAM
stable_diffusion_img2img = StableDiffusionImg2ImgPipeline(**components)
```

Note how the above code snippet makes use of [`DiffusionPipeline.components`].

> 

Reviewer 2: Great!
